And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, “Get thee hence and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the Brook Cherith, that is before the Jordan.
And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there.” So he went and did according unto the word of the Lord; for he went and dwelt by the Brook Cherith, that is before the Jordan.
And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank from the brook.
And it came to pass after a while that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land.
And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, “Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Sidon, and dwell there.
Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee.” So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering sticks; and he called to her and said, “Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.” And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her and said, “Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand.” And she said, “As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal in a barrel and a little oil in a cruse.
And behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die.” And Elijah said unto her, “Fear not; go and do as thou hast said, but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and afterward make for thee and for thy son.
For thus saith the Lord God of Israel:
‘The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth.’” And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah, and she and he and her house ate for many days.
And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord which He spoke by Elijah.
And it came to pass after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him.
And she said unto Elijah, “What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God?
Art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrance and to slay my son?” And he said unto her, “Give me thy son.” And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into a loft where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed.
And he cried unto the Lord and said, “O Lord my God, hast Thou also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn by slaying her son?” And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto the Lord and said, “O Lord my God, I pray Thee, let this child’s soul come into him again!” And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived.
And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother; and Elijah said, “See, thy son liveth.” And the woman said to Elijah, “Now by this I know that thou art a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in thy mouth is truth.”and over these, three presidents, of whom Daniel was first, that the princes might give account unto them and the king should have no damage.
Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes, because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king thought to set him over the whole realm.
Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find no occasion nor fault, inasmuch as he was faithful; neither was there any error or fault found in him.
Then said these men, “We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel unless we find it against him concerning the law of his God.” Then these presidents and princes assembled together before the king, and said thus unto him, “King Darius, live for ever!
All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors and the princes, the counselors and the captains, have consulted together to establish a royal statute and to make a firm decree, that whosoever shall ask a petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.
Now, O king, establish the decree and sign the writing, that it be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.” Therefore King Darius signed the writing and the decree.
Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house; and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as he did formerly.
Then these men assembled, and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God.
Then they came near, and spoke before the king concerning the king’s decree:
“Hast thou not signed a decree, that every man that shall ask a petition of any god or man within thirty days, except of thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions?” The king answered and said, “The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.” Then answered they and said before the king, “That Daniel, who is of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition three times a day.” Then the king, when he heard these words, was sorely displeased with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him; and he labored till the going down of the sun to deliver him.
Then these men assembled unto the king, and said unto the king, “Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is: that no decree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed.” Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel and cast him into the den of lions.
Now the king spoke and said unto Daniel, “Thy God whom thou servest continually, He will deliver thee.” And a stone was brought and laid upon the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet and with the signet of his lords, that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel.
Then the king went to his palace and passed the night fasting; neither were instruments of music brought before him, and his sleep went from him.
Then the king arose very early in the morning and went in haste unto the den of lions.
And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice unto Daniel; and the king spoke and said to Daniel, “O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions?” Then said Daniel unto the king, “O king, live for ever!
My God hath sent His angel, and hath shut the lions’ mouths, that they have not hurt me, inasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt.” Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den.
So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he believed in his God.
And the king commanded, and they brought those men who had accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions — them, their children, and their wives; and the lions had the mastery of them, and broke all their bones in pieces before they came to the bottom of the den.
Then King Darius wrote unto all people, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth:
“Peace be multiplied unto you.
I make a decree that in every dominion of my kingdom men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel. For He is the living God and steadfast for ever, and His Kingdom, that which shall not be destroyed, and His dominion shall be even unto the end.
He delivereth and rescueth, and He worketh signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the lions.” So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian.“I am the Lord thy God, who have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
“Thou shalt have no other gods before Me.
“Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them; for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate Me, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love Me and keep My commandments.
“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh His name in vain.
“Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work; but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates.
For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day.
Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.
“Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.
“Thou shalt not kill.
“Thou shalt not commit adultery.
“Thou shalt not steal.
“Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.
“Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house; thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor’s.” And all the people saw the thunderings and the lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet and the mountain smoking; and when the people saw it, they removed and stood afar off.
And they said unto Moses, “Speak thou with us and we will hear; but let not God speak with us, lest we die.” And Moses said unto the people, “Fear not; for God has come to test you, and that His fear may be before your faces, that ye sin not.” And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was.
And the Lord said unto Moses, “Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel:
‘Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.
Ye shall not make with Me gods of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold.
An altar of earth thou shalt make unto Me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings and thy peace offerings, thy sheep and thine oxen.
In all places where I record My name I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee.
And if thou wilt make Me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stone; for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it.
Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto Mine altar, that thy nakedness be not uncovered thereon.’Behold, I, Paul, say unto you that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
For I testify again to every man who is circumcised, that he is a debtor to keep the whole law.
Christ then becomes of no effect unto you, whosoever of you claim justification by the law; ye are fallen from grace.
For we, through the Spirit, wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.
For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith which worketh by love.
Ye were running well; who hindered you, that ye should not obey the truth?
This persuasion cometh not from Him that calleth you.
A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.
I have confidence in you through the Lord that ye will be not otherwise minded; but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be.
And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why then do I yet suffer persecution?
Then would the offense of the cross cease.
I would that they were even cut off which trouble you!
For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion of the flesh, but by love serve one another.
For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this:
“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.” But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye not be consumed one by another.
This I say then:
Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh.
For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary the one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would.
But if ye are led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law.
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, and they are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, quarreling, rivalry, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envying, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like.
About these things I tell you again, as I have also told you in times past, that those who do such things shall not inherit the Kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.
And those who are Christ’s have crucified the flesh with its affections and lusts.
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another and envying one another.And the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep.
And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
And God said, “Let there be light”; and there was light.
And God saw the light, that it was good; and God divided the light from the darkness.
And God called the light Day, and the darkness He called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day.
And God said, “Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.” And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament; and it was so.
And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.
And God said, “Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear”; and it was so.
And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called He Seas; and God saw that it was good.
And God said, “Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth”; and it was so.
And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his kind; and God saw that it was good.
And the evening and the morning were the third day.
And God said, “Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and years; and let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth”; and it was so.
And God made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night.
He made the stars also.
And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth, and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness.
And God saw that it was good.
And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.
And God said, “Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.” And God created great whales and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind; and God saw that it was good.
And God blessed them, saying, “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply on the earth.” And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.
And God said, “Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind: cattle and creeping thing and beast of the earth after his kind”; and it was so.
And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind; and God saw that it was good.
And God said, “Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.” So God created man in His own image, in the image of God created He him; male and female created He them.
And God blessed them, and God said unto them, “Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.” And God said, “Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.
And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat”; and it was so.
And God saw every thing that He had made, and behold, it was very good.
And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.And the Lord answered me and said:
“Write the vision and make it plain upon tablets, that he may run that readeth it.
For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak and not lie.
Though it tarry, wait for it, because it will surely come; it will not tarry.
Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him; but the just shall live by his faith.
“Yea also, because he transgresseth by wine, he is a proud man, neither keepeth at home, who enlargeth his desire as hell, and is as death and cannot be satisfied, but gathereth unto him all nations, and heapeth unto him all people.
Shall not all these take up a parable against him, and a taunting proverb against him, and say, ‘Woe to him that increaseth that which is not his (how long?) and to him that ladeth himself with thick clay’?
Shall they not rise up suddenly that shall bite thee, and awake, that shall vex thee?
And shalt thou be for booty unto them?
Because thou hast despoiled many nations, all the remnant of the people shall despoil thee, because of men’s blood, and for the violence of the land, of the city, and of all that dwell therein.
“Woe to him that coveteth an evil covetousness for his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the power of evil!
Thou hast devised shame to thy house by cutting off many people, and hast sinned against thy soul.
For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber shall answer it.
“Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood, and establisheth a city by iniquity!
Behold, is it not of the Lord of hosts that the people shall labor in the very fire, and the people shall weary themselves for very vanity?
For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea.
“Woe unto him that giveth his neighbor drink, that puttest thy bottle to him, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest look on his nakedness!
Thou art filled with the shame for glory; drink thou also, and let thy foreskin be uncovered.
The cup of the Lord’S right hand shall be turned unto thee, and shameful spewing shall be on thy glory.
For the violence of Lebanon shall cover thee, and the spoil of beasts which made them afraid, because of men’s blood and for the violence of the land, of the city, and of all that dwell therein.
“What profiteth the graven image that the maker thereof hath graven it, the molten image and a teacher of lies, that the maker of his work trusteth therein to make dumb idols?
Woe unto him that saith to the wood, ‘Awake!’ To the dumb stone, ‘Arise, it shall teach!’ Behold, it is laid over with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in the midst of it.
“But the Lord is in His holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before Him.”For He shall grow up before Him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground.
He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see Him, there is no beauty that we should desire Him.
He is despised and rejected of men, a Man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief.
And we hid as it were our faces from Him; He was despised, and we esteemed Him not.
Surely He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we did esteem Him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.
But He was wounded for our transgressions; He was bruised for our iniquities.
The chastisement of our peace was upon Him, and with His stripes we are healed.
All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on Him the iniquity of us all.
He was oppressed, and He was afflicted, yet He opened not his mouth; He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter; and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He openeth not His mouth.
He was taken from prison and from judgment; and who shall declare His generation?
For He was cut off out of the land of the living; for the transgression of My people was He stricken.
And He made His grave with the wicked, and with the rich in His death, because He had done no violence, neither was any deceit in His mouth.
Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise Him; He hath put Him to grief.
When thou shalt make His soul an offering for sin, He shall see His seed, He shall prolong His days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in His hand.
He shall see of the travail of His soul, and shall be satisfied.
By His knowledge shall My righteous Servant justify many, for He shall bear their iniquities.
Therefore will I divide Him a portion with the great, and He shall divide the spoil with the strong, because He hath poured out His soul unto death.
And He was numbered with the transgressors; and He bore the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.The same was in the beginning with God.
All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made.
In Him was life, and that life was the Light of men.
And the Light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not.
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
The same came as a witness to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe.
He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.
That was the true Light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
He was in the world, and the world was made by Him, and the world knew Him not.
He came unto His own, and His own received Him not.
But as many as received Him, to them gave He power to become the sons of God, even to those who believe in His name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us (and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only Begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth.
John bore witness of Him and cried, saying, “This was He of whom I spoke, ‘He that cometh after me is preferred before me, for He was before me.’” And of His fullness have we all received, and grace for grace.
For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.
No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, He hath declared Him.
And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who art thou?” And he confessed and denied not, but confessed, “I am not the Christ.” And they asked him, “What then?
Art thou Elijah?” And he said, “I am not.” “Art thou that Prophet?” And he answered, “No.” Then said they unto him, “Who art thou, that we may give an answer to those who sent us?
What sayest thou of thyself?” He said, “I am ‘the voice of one crying in the wilderness, “Make straight the way of the Lord,”’ as said the prophet Isaiah.” And those who were sent were of the Pharisees.
And they asked him, and said unto him, “Why dost thou baptize then if thou art not that Christ, nor Elijah, neither that Prophet?” John answered them, saying, “I baptize with water, but there standeth One among you whom ye know not.
He it is who, coming after me, is preferred before me, whose shoe’s strap I am not worthy to unloose.” These things were done in Bethabara beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day John saw Jesus coming unto him, and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sin of the world!
This is He of whom I said, ‘After me cometh a Man who is preferred before me, for He was before me.’ And I knew Him not; but that He should be made manifest to Israel, therefore have I come baptizing with water.” And John bore record, saying, “I saw the Spirit descending from Heaven like a dove, and It abode upon Him.
And I knew Him not.
But He that sent me to baptize with water, the Same said unto me, ‘Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on Him, the Same is He that baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.’ And I saw and bore record that this is the Son of God.” Again the next day John stood with two of his disciples, and looking upon Jesus as He walked, he said, “Behold the Lamb of God!” And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
Then Jesus turned and saw them following, and said unto them, “What seek ye?” They said unto Him, “Rabbi” (which is to say, being interpreted, “Master”), “where dwellest Thou?” He said unto them, “Come and see.” They came and saw where He dwelt and stayed with Him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
One of the two who heard John speak, and followed Him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
He first found his own brother Simon and said unto him, “We have found the Messiah” (which is, being interpreted, “the Christ”).
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, He said, “Thou art Simon, the son of Jonah. Thou shalt be called Cephas” (which is by interpretation, “a stone”).
The day following, Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and found Philip and said unto him, “Follow Me.” Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip found Nathanael and said unto him, “We have found Him of whom Moses in the Law and the Prophets wrote:
Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.” And Nathanael said unto him, “Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?” Philip said unto him, “Come and see.” Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him, and said of him, “Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!” Nathanael said unto Him, “How knowest Thou me?” Jesus answered and said unto him, “Before Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee.” Nathanael answered and said unto Him, “Rabbi, Thou art the Son of God; Thou art the King of Israel.” Jesus answered and said unto him, “Because I said unto thee, ‘I saw thee under the fig tree,’ believest thou?
Thou shalt see greater things than these.” And He said unto him, “Verily, verily I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man.”The same came to Jesus by night and said unto Him, “Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God; for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, unless God be with him.” Jesus answered and said unto him, “Verily, verily I say unto thee, unless a man be born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of God.” Nicodemus said unto Him, “How can a man be born when he is old?
Can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born?” Jesus answered, “Verily, verily I say unto thee, unless a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Marvel not that I said unto thee, ‘Ye must be born again.’ The wind bloweth where it will, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.” Nicodemus answered and said unto Him, “How can these things be?” Jesus answered and said unto him, “Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?
Verily, verily I say unto thee, we speak what we know and testify what we have seen; and ye receive not our witness.
If I have told you earthly things and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you of heavenly things?
And no man hath ascended up to Heaven, but He that came down from Heaven, even the Son of Man who is in Heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have eternal life.
“For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
For God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved.
“He that believeth in Him is not condemned; but He that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation: that Light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.
For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.” After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He tarried with them, and baptized.
And John also was baptizing at Aenon near Salim, because there was much water there.
And they came and were baptized, for John had not yet been cast into prison.
Then there arose a question between some of John’s disciples and the Jews about purifying.
And they came unto John and said unto him, “Rabbi, He that was with thee beyond the Jordan, to whom thou bearest witness — behold, the same baptizeth and all men come to Him.” John answered and said, “A man can receive nothing, unless it be given him from Heaven.
Ye yourselves bear me witness that I said, ‘I am not the Christ,’ but that ‘I am sent before Him.’ He that hath the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice.
This my joy, therefore, is fulfilled.
He must increase, but I must decrease.
“He that cometh from above is above all; he that is of the earth is earthly and speaketh of the earth.
He that cometh from Heaven is above all.
And what He hath seen and heard, to that He testifieth, and no man receiveth His testimony.
He that hath received His testimony hath set his seal to this: that God is true.
For He whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God, for God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto Him.
The Father loveth the Son and hath given all things into His hand.
He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting life; and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him.”And the Pharisees came to Him and asked Him, “Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife?” — testing Him.
And He answered and said unto them, “What did Moses command you?” And they said, “Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away.” And Jesus answered and said unto them, “Because of the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept.
But from the beginning of the creation, ’God made them male and female.
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.’ So then they are no more two, but one flesh.
What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.” And in the house His disciples asked Him again about the same matter.
And He said unto them, “Whosoever shall put away his wife and marry another, committeth adultery against her.
And if a woman shall put away her husband and be married to another, she committeth adultery.” And they brought young children to Him, that He should touch them; and His disciples rebuked those who brought them.
But when Jesus saw it, He was much displeased and said unto them, “Suffer the little children to come unto Me, and forbid them not, for of such is the Kingdom of God.
Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the Kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.” And He took them up in His arms, put His hands upon them, and blessed them.
And when He had gone forth onto the road, there came one running, and knelt before Him and asked Him, “Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?” And Jesus said unto him, “Why callest thou Me good?
There is none good but One, that is, God.
Thou knowest the commandments:
‘Do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, defraud not, honor thy father and mother.’” And he answered and said unto Him, “Master, all these have I observed from my youth.” Then Jesus, beholding him, loved him and said unto him, “One thing thou lackest:
Go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in Heaven; and come, take up the cross, and follow Me.” And he was sad at that saying and went away grieved, for he had great possessions.
And Jesus looked round about and said unto His disciples, “How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the Kingdom of God!” And the disciples were astonished at His words, but Jesus answered again and said unto them, “Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the Kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God.” And they were astonished beyond measure, saying among themselves, “Who then can be saved?” And Jesus, looking upon them, said, “With men it is impossible, but not with God; for with God all things are possible.” Then Peter began to say unto Him, “Lo, we have left all and have followed Thee.” And Jesus answered and said, “Verily I say unto you, there is no man that hath left house or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for My sake and the Gospel’s, but he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brethren and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the world to come, eternal life.
But many that are first shall be last, and the last first.” And they were on the way going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus went before them; and they were amazed, and as they followed, they were afraid.
And He took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things would happen unto Him, saying, “Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and unto the scribes; and they shall condemn Him to death, and shall deliver Him to the Gentiles.
And they shall mock Him and shall scourge Him, and shall spit upon Him and shall kill Him. And the third day He shall rise again.” And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came unto Him, saying, “Master, we would that Thou should do for us whatsoever we shall desire.” And He said unto them, “What would ye that I should do for you?” They said unto Him, “Grant unto us that we may sit, one on Thy right hand and the other on Thy left hand, in Thy glory.” But Jesus said unto them, “Ye know not what ye ask.
Can ye drink of the cup that I drink of, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” And they said unto Him, “We can.” And Jesus said unto them, “Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and with the baptism that I am baptized with, also shall ye be baptized.
But to sit on My right hand and on My left hand is not Mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.” And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John.
But Jesus called them to Him and said unto them, “Ye know that they that are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and their great ones exercise authority upon them.
But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister, and whosoever of you would be the chiefest shall be servant of all.
For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give His life as a ransom for many.” And they came to Jericho. And as He went out of Jericho with His disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the wayside begging.
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, “Jesus, Thou Son of David, have mercy on me!” And many charged him that he should hold his peace; but he cried out all the more, “Thou Son of David, have mercy on me!” And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called.
And they called the blind man, saying unto him, “Be of good comfort; rise; He calleth thee.” And he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus.
And Jesus answered and said unto him, “What wilt thou that I should do unto thee?” The blind man said unto Him, “Lord, that I might receive my sight.” And Jesus said unto him, “Go thy way.
Thy faith hath made thee whole.” And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.Therefore when thou givest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men.
Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.
But when thou givest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth, that thine almsgiving may be in secret; and thy Father who seeth in secret, Himself shall reward thee openly.
“And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are.
For they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men.
Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.
But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father who seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.
Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask Him.
In this manner therefore pray ye:
Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy name.
Thy Kingdom come.
Thy will be done on earth, as it is in Heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
For Thine is the Kingdom, and the power and the glory for ever.
Amen.
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
“Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance.
For they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast.
Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.
But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head and wash thy face, that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
“Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal; but lay up for yourselves treasures in Heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal.
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
“The light of the body is the eye.
If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness.
If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!
“No man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other.
Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
“Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they?
“Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?
And why take ye thought for raiment?
Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow.
They toil not, neither do they spin, and yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Therefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall He not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?
Therefore take no thought, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘Wherewith shall we be clothed?’ (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek.) For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
But seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.
“Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.Blessed are they that keep His testimonies and that seek Him with the whole heart.
They also do no iniquity; they walk in His ways.
Thou hast commanded us to keep Thy precepts diligently; O that my ways were directed to keep Thy statutes!
Then shall I not be ashamed when I have respect unto all Thy commandments.
I will praise Thee with uprightness of heart when I shall have learned Thy righteous judgments.
I will keep Thy statutes; O forsake me not utterly!
How shall a young man cleanse his way?
By taking heed thereto according to Thy word.
With my whole heart have I sought Thee; O let me not wander from Thy commandments!
Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against Thee.
Blessed art Thou, O Lord; teach me Thy statutes.
With my lips have I declared all the judgments of Thy mouth.
I have rejoiced in the way of Thy testimonies, as much as in all riches.
I will meditate on Thy precepts and attend unto Thy ways.
I will delight myself in Thy statutes; I will not forget Thy word.
Deal bountifully with Thy servant, that I may live and keep Thy word.
Open Thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of Thy law.
I am a stranger on the earth; hide not Thy commandments from me.
My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath for Thy judgments at all times.
Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, that err from Thy commandments.
Remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept Thy testimonies.
Princes also sat and spoke against me, but Thy servant meditated on Thy statutes.
Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors.
My soul cleaveth unto the dust; quicken Thou me according to Thy word.
I have declared my ways, and Thou heardest me; teach me Thy statutes.
Make me to understand the way of Thy precepts; so shall I talk of Thy wondrous works.
My soul melteth from heaviness; strengthen Thou me according to Thy word.
Remove from me the way of lying, and grant me Thy law graciously.
I have chosen the way of truth; Thy judgments have I laid before me.
I have held fast unto Thy testimonies; O Lord, put me not to shame.
I will run in the way of Thy commandments, when Thou shalt enlarge my heart.
Teach me, O Lord, the way of Thy statutes, and I shall keep it unto the end.
Give me understanding and I shall keep Thy law; yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart.
Make me to go in the path of Thy commandments, for therein do I delight.
Incline my heart unto Thy testimonies, and not to covetousness; turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken Thou me in Thy way.
Establish Thy word unto Thy servant, who is devoted to the fear of Thee.
Turn away my reproach which I fear, for Thy judgments are good.
Behold, I have longed after Thy precepts; quicken me in Thy righteousness.
Let Thy mercies come also unto me, O Lord, even Thy salvation according to Thy word; so shall I have the answer for him that reproacheth me, for I trust in Thy word.
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for I have hoped in Thy judgments.
So shall I keep Thy law continually, for ever and ever.
And I will walk in liberty, for I seek Thy precepts.
I will speak of Thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.
And I will delight myself in Thy commandments which I have loved.
My hands also will I lift up unto Thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate on Thy statutes.
Remember the word unto Thy servant, upon which Thou hast caused me to hope.
This is my comfort in my affliction, for Thy word hath quickened me.
The proud have held me greatly in derision, yet have I not departed from Thy law.
I remembered Thy judgments of old, O Lord, and have comforted myself.
Horror hath taken hold upon me, because of the wicked that forsake Thy law.
Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
I have remembered Thy name, O Lord, in the night and have kept Thy law.
This I had, because I kept Thy precepts.
Thou art my portion, O Lord; I have said that I would keep Thy words.
I entreated Thy favor with my whole heart; be merciful unto me according to Thy word.
I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto Thy testimonies.
I made haste, and delayed not to keep Thy commandments.
The cords of the wicked have robbed me, but I have not forgotten Thy law.
At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto Thee, because of Thy righteous judgments.
I am a companion of all them that fear Thee, and of them that keep Thy precepts.
The earth, O Lord, is full of Thy mercy; teach me Thy statutes.
Thou hast dealt well with Thy servant, O Lord, according to Thy word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I have believed Thy commandments.
Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now have I kept Thy word.
Thou art good, and doest good; teach me Thy statutes.
The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep Thy precepts with my whole heart.
Their heart is as fat as grease, but I delight in Thy law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn Thy statutes.
The law of Thy mouth is better for me than thousands of gold and silver.
Thy hands have made me and fashioned me; give me understanding, that I may learn Thy commandments.
They that fear Thee will be glad when they see me, because I have hoped in Thy word.
I know, O Lord, that Thy judgments are right, and that Thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.
Let, I pray Thee, Thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to Thy word unto Thy servant.
Let Thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live; for Thy law is my delight.
Let the proud be ashamed, for they dealt perversely with me without cause; but I will meditate on Thy precepts.
Let those that fear Thee turn unto me, and those that have known Thy testimonies.
Let my heart be sound in Thy statutes, that I not be ashamed.
My soul fainteth for Thy salvation, but I hope in Thy word.
Mine eyes fail from seeking Thy word, saying, “When wilt Thou comfort me?” For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet do I not forget Thy statutes.
How many are the days of Thy servant?
When wilt Thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?
The proud have dug pits for me, which is not according to Thy law.
All Thy commandments are faithful; they persecute me wrongfully; help Thou me!
They had almost consumed me from the earth, but I forsook not Thy precepts.
Quicken me according to Thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of Thy mouth.
Forever, O Lord, Thy word is settled in heaven.
Thy faithfulness is unto all generations; Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.
They continue this day according to Thine ordinances, for all are Thy servants.
Had not Thy law been my delight, I should have perished in mine affliction.
I will never forget Thy precepts, for with them Thou hast quickened me.
I am Thine, save me; for I have sought Thy precepts.
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me, but I will consider Thy testimonies.
I have seen an end of all perfection, but Thy commandment is exceeding broad.
O how I love Thy law!
It is my meditation all the day.
Thou, through Thy commandments, hast made me wiser than mine enemies; for Thy commands are ever with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers, for Thy testimonies are my meditation.
I understand more than the ancients, because I keep Thy precepts.
I have restrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep Thy word.
I have not departed from Thy judgments, for Thou hast taught me.
How sweet are Thy words unto my taste, yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Through Thy precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.
I have sworn an oath, and I will perform it, that I will keep Thy righteous judgments.
I am afflicted very much; quicken me, O Lord, according unto Thy word.
Accept, I beseech Thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Lord, and teach me Thy judgments.
My soul is continually in my hand, yet I do not forget Thy law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I erred not from Thy precepts.
Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage for ever, for they are the rejoicing of my heart.
I have inclined mine heart to perform Thy statutes alway, even unto the end.
I hate vain thoughts, but Thy law do I love.
Thou art my hiding place and my shield; I hope in Thy word.
Depart from me, ye evildoers, for I will keep the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to Thy word, that I may live, and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Hold Thou me up, and I shall be safe, and I will have regard unto Thy statutes continually.
Thou hast trodden down all them that err from Thy statutes, for their deceit is falsehood.
Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross; therefore I love Thy testimonies.
My flesh trembleth for fear of Thee, and I am afraid of Thy judgments.
I have done judgment and justice; leave me not to mine oppressors.
Be surety for Thy servant for good; let not the proud oppress me.
Mine eyes fail, seeking for Thy salvation and for the word of Thy righteousness.
Deal with Thy servant according unto Thy mercy, and teach me Thy statutes.
I am Thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know Thy testimonies.
It is time for Thee, Lord, to work, for they have made void Thy law.
Therefore I love Thy commandments above gold, yea, above fine gold.
Therefore I esteem all Thy precepts concerning all things to be right, and I hate every false way.
Thy testimonies are wonderful; therefore doth my soul keep them.
The entering of Thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.
I opened my mouth and panted, for I longed for Thy commandments.
Look Thou upon me and be merciful unto me, as Thou used to do unto those that love Thy name.
Order my steps in Thy word, and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.
Deliver me from the oppression of man; so will I keep Thy precepts.
Make Thy face to shine upon Thy servant, and teach me Thy statutes.
Rivers of water run down mine eyes, because men keep not Thy law.
Righteous art Thou, O Lord, and upright are Thy judgments.
Thy testimonies that Thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful.
My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten Thy words.
Thy word is very pure; therefore Thy servant loveth it.
I am small and despised, yet I do not forget Thy precepts.
Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and Thy law is the truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me, yet Thy commandments are my delights.
The righteousness of Thy testimonies is everlasting; give me understanding, and I shall live.
I cried with my whole heart: hear me, O Lord; I will keep Thy statutes.
I cried unto Thee: save me, and I shall keep Thy testimonies.
I awaited the dawning of the morning and cried; I hoped in Thy word.
Mine eyes awaited the night watches, that I might meditate on Thy word.
Hear my voice according unto Thy lovingkindness; O Lord, quicken me according to Thy judgment.
They draw nigh that follow after mischief; they are far from Thy law.
Thou art near, O Lord, and all Thy commandments are truth.
Concerning Thy testimonies, I have known of old that Thou hast founded them for ever.
Consider mine affliction and deliver me, for I do not forget Thy law.
Plead my cause and deliver me; quicken me according to Thy word.
Salvation is far from the wicked, for they seek not Thy statutes.
Great are Thy tender mercies, O Lord; quicken me according to Thy judgments.
Many are my persecutors and mine enemies, yet do I not depart from Thy testimonies.
I beheld the transgressors and was grieved, because they kept not Thy word.
Consider how I love Thy precepts; quicken me, O Lord, according to Thy lovingkindness.
Thy word is true from the beginning, and every one of Thy righteous judgments endureth for ever.
Princes have persecuted me without cause, but my heart standeth in awe of Thy word.
I rejoice at Thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.
I hate and abhor lying, but Thy law do I love.
Seven times a day do I praise Thee, because of Thy righteous judgments.
Great peace have they that love Thy law, and nothing shall cause them to fall.
Lord, I have hoped for Thy salvation and have done Thy commandments.
My soul hath kept Thy testimonies, and I love them exceedingly.
I have kept Thy precepts and Thy testimonies, for all my ways are before Thee.
Let my cry come near before Thee, O Lord; give me understanding according to Thy word.
Let my supplication come before Thee; deliver me according to Thy word.
My lips shall utter praise when Thou hast taught me Thy statutes.
My tongue shall speak of Thy word, for all Thy commandments are righteousness.
Let Thine hand help me, for I have chosen Thy precepts.
I have longed for Thy salvation, O Lord, and Thy law is my delight.
Let my soul live, and it shall praise Thee; and let Thy judgments help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek Thy servant, for I do not forget Thy commandments.who bore record of the Word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.
Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein; for the time is at hand.
John, To the seven churches in Asia:
Grace be unto you and peace from Him who is, and who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before His throne; and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first-begotten of the dead, and the prince over the kings of the earth.
Unto Him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in His own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and His Father, to Him be glory and dominion for ever and ever.
Amen.
Behold, He cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see Him, and they also who pierced Him; and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of Him. Even so.
Amen.
“I Am Alpha And Omega, The Beginning And The Ending,” saith the Lord, who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.
I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation and in the Kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was on the isle that is called Patmos, for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.
I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s Day, and I heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet, saying, “I am Alpha and Omega, the First and the Last,” and, “What thou seest, write in a book and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia: unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.” And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me.
And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks; and in the midst of the seven candlesticks One like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the feet and girded about the breast with a golden girdle.
His head and His hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and His eyes were as a flame of fire; and His feet like unto fine brass, as though they burned in a furnace, and His voice as the sound of many waters.
And He had in His right hand seven stars, and out of His mouth went a sharp twoedged sword, and His countenance shone as the sun shineth in his strength.
And when I saw Him, I fell at His feet as dead.
And He laid His right hand upon me, saying unto me, “Fear not; I am the First and the Last.
I am He that liveth, and was dead; and behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen, and have the keys of hell and of death.
Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter.
The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in My right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks: the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
For I say to every man that is among you, through the grace given unto me, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith.
For as we have many members in one body and all members have not the same office, so we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.
Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us: if prophecy, let us prophesy according to our portion of faith; or ministry, let us wait on our ministering; or he that teacheth, on teaching; or he that exhorteth, on exhortation; he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that showeth mercy, with cheerfulness.
Let love be without dissimulation.
Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good.
Have kindly affection one for another with brotherly love, in honor preferring one another; not slothful in business; fervent in spirit, serving the Lord; rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer; distributing to the necessity of saints, given to hospitality.
Bless those who persecute you; bless and curse not.
Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep.
Be of the same mind one toward another.
Set not your mind on high things, but condescend to men of low estate.
Be not wise in your own conceits.
Recompense no man evil for evil.
Provide things honest in the sight of all men.
If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.
Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath; for it is written:
“Vengeance is Mine; I will repay,saith the Lord.” Therefore:
“If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink.
For in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head.” Be not overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.